Astro Runtime - An API for the VO
---------------------------------------

The Astro Runtime (AR) simplifies access to Virtual Observatory 
(VO) services.  It implements the client side of many VO services,
 and provides an API that is higher-level, simple, consistent and 
 self-contained. It provides functionality for implementing data 
 analysis applications which use remote VO resources.  
 It is intended both for use in actual applications and science scripting.  
 Identical functionality is made available in multiple languages and 
 application environments.

In general, scientific analysis applications want a higher level
interface and want to be isolated from the details of, and changes to,
the more fundamental VO protocols and related technology comprising
the core VO infrastructure.  Astro Runtime hides most of the details of
the VO infrastructure, provides a straightfoward way to deal with
protocol versioning, and allows for more transparent infrastructure
evolution.

Astro Runtime has the following architecture:

    Client Apps & Scripts  	C, Java, Python, Perl, etc
          |
    Astro Runtime				Runs locally
	 Has clients for
		* DAL services
		* Registry
		* Sesame, Vizier
		* Myspace
		* CEA Services
		* PLASTIC interop
	Has utility libraries for
		* Table manipulation
		* UI Dialogues
	  |
    Remote VO Services				Internet/Grid


The current implementation supports client-side development in
any language with a XML-RPC,  Java-RMI or basic HTTP library. It has been 
successfully used from C, C++, Java, Python, Perl, Tcl and Bash. We'd be 
interested in hearing experiences of use from other languages - FORTRAN
in particular.


Principal Directories

	examples Examples of use of AR in various languages
	contrib     Other contributed examples
	doc		   Project and API Documentation
	rmi		   Libraries required to connect via Java-RMI
	xmlrpc	   Libraries required to connect via Java-XML-RPC

External Dependencies

	Requires an installation of the AstroRuntime Service. Download
	a suitable installer from http://www.astrogrid.org/desktop
	
Getting Started

	See docs/index.html and examples

Status

    The current Astro Runtime implementation is a stable release that is
    used in a number of projects. Any additions to the external interfaces
    will be made in a backwards-compatible manner. 
    
    We plan to add support for SkyNode and similar services in the next release.
    